# The Six Causes of Burnout (with Fixes!)

Causes as reported by @Catehstn at a presentation at @selfconference, fixes as suggested by @connorsb for his own use.

## Lack of Control

- [ ] Move UP! Look at things from 30,000, or 50,000 ft. Review. look at the Big Picture.
- [ ] Read the Stoics - let go of the uncontrollable as that which is beyond your remit.

## Insufficient Reward

- [ ] Are you discounting future reward?
	- [Immanentize the eschaton!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immanentize_the_eschaton)
- [ ] Chain Positive Rewards.
	- IE, reward yourself for biking 3/week with an upgrade to your bike, not with, say, cake.

## Lack of Community

- [ ] Engage with your peers
	- Remind yourself that others work in the same space, and that they are friendly!
- [ ] Talk to your friends.
	- The human ones. Not like the robot you've become.
- [ ] Leave your house and go outside.
- [ ] Love your city - go to an event!

## Absence of Fairness

- [ ] Who has the Canon? IE, Figure out who holds power over who in this situation.
- [ ] *Cui Bono* - Who benefits? From the situation? From the emotions generated by the situation?
- [ ] Fuck the haters.
- [ ] Read the Stoics.

## Conflict in Values

- [ ] Move UP & Without Blame. Look at the bigger values picture.
- [ ] Create a systemic correction that prevents those values from ever conflicting in the first place.
- [ ] Negotiate - get to yes.
	- Often, positions appear to be values, but they're not. Look for what the values actually are.
- [ ] Leave the space (cool down and/or get the fuck out)

## Work Overload

- [ ] Take time to Sharpen the Saw
- [ ] Eliminate those tasks which are "Urgent but Unimportant".
	- Focus on the "Important but Not Urgent".
- [ ] Communicate your Overload - stop the inflow.
- [ ] Make sure your mis-en-place is in place.
	- Overload is the time during which a clean desk is *most* important.
- [ ] When the overload is over, refill the well. Take some time for you.